src/markdown/blog/resources/programming.md, before:

---
slug: "/blog/resources/programming"
date: "2022-03-24"
type: "blogpost"
title: "Learning about programming"
tags: ["architecture"]
---

# Learning about programming

## Beginner

- [Clean Code](https://books.google.com/books/about/Clean_Code.html?id=hjEFCAAAQBAJ&source=kp_book_description)
  - Important basics about programming and TDD
- [Clean Coder](https://books.google.com/books/about/The_Clean_Coder.html?id=VQlvAQAAQBAJ&source=kp_book_description)
  - Important basics on how to behave as a software engineer on the job

## Network

- [Beej's Guide to Network Programming](https://beej.us/guide/bgnet/html/#client-server-background)
  - Unix network programming basics
  - I don't know any C but I could still take away a lot by just reading it. It gives you a basic understanding what higher level languages do in order to come up with the convenience APIs they provide you with. You don't have to read all of it. Later in the guide it goes into quite some details w.r.t the APIs which I personally skipped.
- [TCP source & destination port number](https://www.firewall.cx/networking-topics/protocols/tcp/133-tcp-source-destination-ports.html)
  - Short article explaining how TCP connection are routed on an OS/process level.
  - I found this article when reading [this very enlightning StackOverflow post](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/152457/what-is-the-difference-between-a-port-and-a-socket/152863#152863) trying to go in-depth answering the question "What is the difference between a port and a socket?"

## Databases

- [7 Database Paradigms](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W2Z7fbCLSTw&feature=youtu.be)
  - Short overview over database paradigms and their use cases

## Containers

- [Cracking the Docker CLI](https://iximiuz.com/en/posts/containers-101-container-mgmt-commands/)
  - Overview of docker CLI and how the different commands relate to each other.
  - For this article it is good to have run into some of the pitfalls of docker before. This way you can go back mentally and understand why certain things happened the way they did.
- [Containers vs Pods](https://iximiuz.com/en/posts/containers-vs-pods/)
  - At the time of reading I was trying to get a better understanding of kubernetes, given that I have a decent enough grasp on docker/containers to get around at work without big issues. It was very enlightning to read this is as a start.
- [Journey From Containerization To Orchestration And Beyond](https://iximiuz.com/en/posts/journey-from-containerization-to-orchestration-and-beyond/#container-runtimes)
  - Very interesting article about the different puzzle pieces that make up a container orchestration tools. Starting at the very bottom with `runc` using basic linux building blocks to create containers, over container management via `containerd` or `cri-o` up to the more known players like `docker`/`dockerd` and `kubelet`.
  - It touches on what a runtime shim is and why it is necessary.
  - It gives a nice historical overview of the different projects in the container ecosystem.

## Language articles

- [Issues with Golang](https://fasterthanli.me/articles/lies-we-tell-ourselves-to-keep-using-golang)
  - Interesting read about what people think about when weighing pros and cons of a language

Commit message:

Add TODOs and some linux basics

src/markdown/blog/resources/programming.md, after:

---
slug: "/blog/resources/programming"
date: "2022-03-24"
type: "blogpost"
title: "Learning about programming"
tags: ["architecture"]
---

# Learning about programming

## Beginner

- [Clean Code](https://books.google.com/books/about/Clean_Code.html?id=hjEFCAAAQBAJ&source=kp_book_description)
  - Important basics about programming and TDD
- [Clean Coder](https://books.google.com/books/about/The_Clean_Coder.html?id=VQlvAQAAQBAJ&source=kp_book_description)
  - Important basics on how to behave as a software engineer on the job

## Network

- [Beej's Guide to Network Programming](https://beej.us/guide/bgnet/html/#client-server-background)
  - Unix network programming basics
  - I don't know any C but I could still take away a lot by just reading it. It gives you a basic understanding what higher level languages do in order to come up with the convenience APIs they provide you with. You don't have to read all of it. Later in the guide it goes into quite some details w.r.t the APIs which I personally skipped.
- [TCP source & destination port number](https://www.firewall.cx/networking-topics/protocols/tcp/133-tcp-source-destination-ports.html)
  - Short article explaining how TCP connection are routed on an OS/process level.
  - I found this article when reading [this very enlightning StackOverflow post](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/152457/what-is-the-difference-between-a-port-and-a-socket/152863#152863) trying to go in-depth answering the question "What is the difference between a port and a socket?"

## Databases

- [7 Database Paradigms](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W2Z7fbCLSTw&feature=youtu.be)
  - Short overview over database paradigms and their use cases

## Containers

- [Cracking the Docker CLI](https://iximiuz.com/en/posts/containers-101-container-mgmt-commands/)
  - Overview of docker CLI and how the different commands relate to each other.
  - For this article it is good to have run into some of the pitfalls of docker before. This way you can go back mentally and understand why certain things happened the way they did.
- [Containers vs Pods](https://iximiuz.com/en/posts/containers-vs-pods/)
  - At the time of reading I was trying to get a better understanding of kubernetes, given that I have a decent enough grasp on docker/containers to get around at work without big issues. It was very enlightning to read this is as a start.
- [Journey From Containerization To Orchestration And Beyond](https://iximiuz.com/en/posts/journey-from-containerization-to-orchestration-and-beyond/#container-runtimes)
  - Very interesting article about the different puzzle pieces that make up a container orchestration tools. Starting at the very bottom with `runc` using basic linux building blocks to create containers, over container management via `containerd` or `cri-o` up to the more known players like `docker`/`dockerd` and `kubelet`.
  - It touches on what a runtime shim is and why it is necessary.
  - It gives a nice historical overview of the different projects in the container ecosystem.

## Linux basics

- [Collection of helpful bash commands](https://github.com/onceupon/Bash-Oneliner)
  - It can be helpful to skim this once to become aware of certain commands or techniques.
  - Obviously not an exhaustive list and slightly skewed towards data processing.

## Language articles

- [Issues with Golang](https://fasterthanli.me/articles/lies-we-tell-ourselves-to-keep-using-golang)
  - Interesting read about what people think about when weighing pros and cons of a language
